---
layout: post
title:  "BEM CSS"
description: ""
type: Post
date: 2015-12-01
image: ""
imageExternal: true
alt: ""
lang: en
url_en: /bem-css
url_br: /bem-css
---

CSS is easy to learn? Most would say that yes, mainly because of the facility and the possibility to see quickly what we are doing. However, of course that exists the negative points and, when we talk about them, one of the principal is related to maintenance/organization of CSS.

Open a file and writing CSS is very easy and quick, however, give maintenance, organize it and scale it are not trivial things. As your project grows, the trend of you start to lose patience with CSS or *break windows* get bigger and bigger. A good reading tip is the article (in pt-br) [Scalable CSS](https://medium.com/@shankarcabus/css-escalavel-parte-1-41e7e863799e#.4hmtk7tuv) do [Shankar Cabus](https://twitter.com/shankarcabus?lang=pt).

## BEM css

There are several alternatives/thoughts/methodologies that attempt to correct and assist in this matter of how to organize and structure the CSS of a project. One is the **BEM** (*Block Element Modifier*), which was created by the **Yandex** guys, a Russian searches site.

As can be noted, the basic idea is to have three things:

* *Block* => like a component. The father.
* *Element* => part (s) which form (s) a block;
* *Modifier* => A possible status of the two previous items.

Huh?! Imagine a list of items with an active item, something more like this:

```html
<ul class="list">
  <li class="list-item active"></li>
  <li class="list-item"></li>
  <li class="list-item"></li>
</ul>
```

```css
.list {}
.list-item {}
.list-item.active {}
```

Applying the *BEM*, we have something like this:

```html
<ul class="list">
  <li class="list__item"></li>
  <li class="list__item"></li>
  <li class="list__item list__item--active"></li>
</ul>
```

```css
.list {}
  .list__item {}
  .list__item--active {}
```

Confesso que há algum tempo atrás quando conheci o **BEM** fui influenciado pelo *pré*conceito e achei muito estranho/feio usar esses `__` e `--`. Mas, agora, mais por dentro da idéia, posso admitir que me convenceu. Claro, que como qualquer outro pensamento/metodologia, existem seus pontos negativos e positivos e cabe a ti, dar a palavra final.

Algumas coisas que percebi com a utilização do **BEM** (mas são apenas minhas opiniões):

* Fácil percepção *das coisas*: batendo o olho rapidamente ou na marcação HTML ou no CSS, é possível entender o que cada coisa faz.
* Mais fácil reutilizar *componentes*.

Gostou? Escrevi alguma groselha? Quer melhorar? Abra uma [issue](https://github.com/raphaelfabeni/raphaelfabeni.github.io/issues) mencionando o post e vamos conversar.
